---

layout: post
title: Importance of Learning To Code
---

I recently watched a great video on computerphile that asked a computer science
professor the importance of learning to code. This is what has provoked the
writing of this post. I have previously thought about the imperative nature of
learning a fudamental skill in todays society, even if most people don't
consider it that.

I'm just going to commenting of on this topic, I'm fair from an authority on
education.

When I say learning to code, I am not talking about becoming a master of it,
rather having a fundamental understanding of programming means. Most students
don't consider programming as career path until someone shows them it outside of
school, or if they're lucky, have a basic IT program which introduces the topic.

Today we are surronded by various diffenent kinds of microprocessors, the most
well known being the ones found in computers and phones. In my professsional
career I have worked in IT support roles and often found that a very large
>amount< of people don't have an understanding of drives computers.

Consider for a minute the importance of learning mathematics has on young
students. For most it gives them a brief introduction to the topic, and most
will only continue to learn fundamental skills in relation to their lives.
However, you are required to learn about some abstract concepts (which people
will happily point out they never use) like pythragories therom, calculas,
algerbrah, vectors, etc. We teach these things because every science is founded
on mathematics and society is based around science (even if religion tries to
deny that). So learning mathematics has a powerful impact of your understanding
of how society works and continues to progress.

Computers and other microprocessors are beginning, and to a large extent,
already have a equal impact on how society works and continues to progress. We
are only in the infancy of computers (been around ~80) and already nearly
everyone in developed nations has some form of smart phone. It is impreative
that we do not fall into the trap of the select few understanding what impacts
everyone, less we lose our technological freedom.
